 
 
 
NIAHLGP21282V022021 
 
Page 1 of 28 
NEW INDIA FLEXI GROUP MEDICLAIM POLICY 
THE NEW INDIA ASSURANCE CO. LTD 
Regd. & Head Office: 87, M.G. Road, Fort, Mumbai – 400 001 
NEW INDIA FLEXI GROUP MEDICLAIM POLICY 
1.0 PREAMBLE 
Whereas Insured designated in the Schedule hereto has by a proposal and declaration dated 
as stated in the Schedule which shall be the basis of this Contract and is deemed to be 
incorporated herein, has applied to THE NEW INDIA ASSURANCE CO. LTD. (hereinafter called 
the COMPANY) for the insurance herein after set forth in respect of Employees/Members 
(including their eligible Family Members) named in the Schedule hereto (herein after called 
the INSURED PERSON) and has paid premium as consideration for such insurance 
2.0 DEFINITIONS 
STANDARD DEFINITIONS 
2.1 ACCIDENT is a sudden, unforeseen and involuntary event caused by external, visible and 
violent means. 
2.2 ANY ONE ILLNESS means continuous Period of illness and it includes relapse within 45 days 
from the date of last consultation with the Hospital where treatment may have been taken. 
2.3 AYUSH HOSPITAL is a Healthcare facility wherein medical / surgical / para-surgical treatment 
procedures and interventions are carried out by AYUSH Medical Practitioner(s) comprising of 
any of the following: 
a. Central or State Government AYUSH Hospital or 
b. Teaching hospital attached to AYUSH College recognized by the Central Government / 
Central Council of Indian Medicine / Central Council for Homeopathy; or 
c. AYUSH Hospital, standalone or co-located with in-patient healthcare facility of any 
recognized system of medicine, registered with the local authorities, wherever 
applicable, and is under the supervision of a qualified registered AYUSH Medical 
Practitioner and must comply with all the following criterion: 
i. Having at least 5 in-patient beds; 
ii. Having qualified AYUSH Medical Practitioner in charge round the clock; 
iii. Having dedicated AYUSH therapy sections as required and/or has equipped 
operation theatre where surgical procedures are to be carried out;  
iv. Maintaining daily records of the patients and making them accessible to the 
insurance company’s authorized representative. 
2.4 AYUSH DAY CARE CENTRE means and includes Community Health Centre (CHC), Primary 
Health Centre (PHC), Dispensary, Clinic, Polyclinic or any such health centre which is 
registered with the local authorities, wherever applicable and having facilities for carrying out 
treatment procedures and medical or surgical/para-surgical interventions or both under the 
supervision of registered AYUSH Medical Practitioner(s) on day care basis without in-patient 
services and must comply with all the following criterion: 
i. Having qualified registered AYUSH Medical Practitioner(s) in charge;  
ii. Having dedicated AYUSH therapy sections as required and/or has equipped operation 
theatre where surgical procedures are to be carried out; 
 
 
 
NIAHLGP21282V022021 
 
Page 2 of 28 
NEW INDIA FLEXI GROUP MEDICLAIM POLICY 
iii. Maintaining daily records of the patients and making them accessible to the insurance 
company’s authorized representative. 
2.5 CASHLESS FACILITY means a facility extended by the insurer to the Insured where the 
payments, of the costs of treatment undergone by the Insured in accordance with the policy 
terms and conditions, are directly made to the network provider by the Company to the 
extent pre-authorization approved. 
2.6 CONDITION PRECEDENT: Condition Precedent shall mean a policy term or condition upon 
which the Insurer's liability under the policy is conditional upon. 
2.7 CONGENITAL ANOMALY: refers to a condition(s) which is present since birth, and which is 
abnormal with reference to form, structure or position. 
i. CONGENITAL INTERNAL ANOMALY   means a Congenital Anomaly which is not in the 
visible and accessible parts of the body.  
ii. CONGENITAL EXTERNAL ANOMALY means a Congenital Anomaly which is in the visible 
and accessible parts of the body 
2.8 DAY CARE CENTRE: A day care centre means any institution established for day care 
treatment of illness and/or injuries or a medical setup within a hospital and which has been 
registered with the local authorities, wherever applicable, and is under supervision of a 
registered and qualified Medical Practitioner AND must comply with all minimum criteria as 
under: 
- Has qualified nursing staff under its employment; 
- Has qualified medical practitioner/s in charge; 
- Has a fully equipped operation theatre of its own where surgical procedures are carried out; 
- Maintains daily records of patients and will make these accessible to the insurance 
company’s authorized personnel. 
2.9 DAY CARE TREATMENT refers to medical treatment or Surgery which are: 
-  Undertaken under General or Local Anesthesia in a Hospital/Day Care Centre in less than 24 
hours because of technological advancement, and 
- Which would have otherwise required a hospitalization of more than 24 hours. 
Treatment normally taken on an out-patient basis is not included in the scope of this 
definition. 
2.10 DENTAL TREATMENT is treatment carried out by a dental practitioner including examinations, 
fillings (where appropriate), crowns, extractions and surgery excluding any form of cosmetic 
surgery / implants. 
2.11 DISCLOSURE TO INFORMATION NORM: The policy shall be void and all premium paid thereon 
shall be forfeited to Us in the event of misrepresentation, mis-description or non-disclosure of 
any material fact. 
2.12 EMERGENCY CARE means management for an Illness or Injury which results in symptoms 
which occur suddenly and unexpectedly, and requires immediate care by a medical 
practitioner to prevent death or serious long-term impairment of the Insured Person’s health. 
2.13 GRACE PERIOD means specified period of time immediately following the premium due date 
during which a payment can be made to renew or continue the Policy in force without loss of 
 
 
 
NIAHLGP21282V022021 
 
Page 3 of 28 
NEW INDIA FLEXI GROUP MEDICLAIM POLICY 
continuity benefits such as waiting period and coverage of pre-existing diseases. Coverage is 
not available for the period for which no premium is received. 
2.14 HOSPITAL means any institution established for Inpatient Care and Day Care treatment of 
Illness and / or Injuries and which has been registered as a Hospital with the local authorities 
under the Clinical Establishment (Registration and Regulation) Act, 2010 or under the 
enactments specified under the schedule of Section 56(1) of the said act OR complies with all 
minimum criteria as under: 
- has at least 10 inpatient beds, in those towns having a population of less than 10,00,000 and 
at least 15 inpatient beds in all other places; 
- has qualified nursing staff under its employment round the clock; 
- has qualified medical practitioner (s) in charge round the clock; 
- has a fully equipped operation theatre of its own where surgical procedures are carried out 
- maintains daily records of patients and will make these accessible to the Insurance 
company’s authorized personnel. 
The term ‘Hospital’ shall not include an establishment which is a place of rest, a place for the 
aged, a place for drug-addicts or place for alcoholics, a hotel or a similar place. 
2.15 HOSPITALISATION means admission in a Hospital for a minimum period of 24 in patient Care 
consecutive hours except for specified procedures/ treatments, where such admission could 
be for a period of less than 24 consecutive hours. 
Anti-Rabies Vaccination 
Hysterectomy 
Appendectomy 
Inguinal/Ventral/Umbilical/Femoral Hernia 
Coronary Angiography 
Lithotripsy (Kidney Stone Removal) 
Coronary Angioplasty 
Parenteral Chemotherapy 
Dental surgery following an accident 
Piles / Fistula 
Dilatation & Curettage (D & C) of Cervix 
Prostate 
Eye surgery 
Radiotherapy 
Fracture / dislocation excluding hairline Fracture 
Sinusitis 
Gastrointestinal Tract system 
Stone in Gall Bladder, Pancreas, and Bile Duct 
Haemo-Dialysis 
Tonsillectomy, 
Hydrocele 
Urinary Tract System 
 
OR any other Surgeries / Procedures agreed by TPA/Company which require less than 24 
hours hospitalization due to advancement in Medical Technology. 
2.16 ILLNESS means a sickness or a disease or pathological condition leading to the impairment of 
normal physiological function which manifests itself during the Policy Period and requires 
medical treatment. 
2.17 INJURY means accidental physical bodily harm excluding illness or disease solely and directly 
caused by external, violent and visible and evident means which is verified and certified by a 
Medical Practitioner. 
i. Acute Condition means a disease, Illness or Injury that is likely to respond quickly to 
treatment which aims to return the person to his or her state of health immediately before 
suffering the disease / Illness / Injury which leads to full recovery. 
ii. Chronic Condition means a disease, Illness, or Injury that has one or more of the following 
characteristics 
a. it needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultations, examinations, check-
ups, and / or tests 
 
 
 
NIAHLGP21282V022021 
 
Page 4 of 28 
NEW INDIA FLEXI GROUP MEDICLAIM POLICY 
b. it needs ongoing or long-term control or relief of symptoms 
c. it requires rehabilitation for the patient or for the patient to be special trained to cope 
with it 
d. it continues indefinitely 
e. it recurs or is likely to recur 
2.18 INPATIENT CARE means treatment for which the Insured Person has to stay in a Hospital for 
more than 24 hours for a covered event. 
2.19 INTENSIVE CARE UNIT (ICU) means an identified section, ward or wing of a Hospital which is 
under the constant supervision of a dedicated Medical Practitioner, and which is specially 
equipped for the continuous monitoring and treatment of patients who are in a critical 
condition, or require life support facilities and where the level of care and supervision is 
considerably more sophisticated and intensive than in the ordinary and other wards. 
2.20 ICU (INTENSIVE CARE UNIT) CHARGES means the amount charged by a Hospital towards ICU 
expenses on a per day basis which shall include the expenses for ICU bed, general medical 
support services provided to any ICU patient including monitoring devices, critical care nursing 
and intensivist charges. 
2.21 MEDICAL ADVICE means Any consultation or advice from a Medical Practitioner including the 
issue of any prescription or repeat prescription. 
2.22 MEDICAL EXPENSES means those expenses that an Insured Person has necessarily and 
actually incurred for medical treatment on account of Illness or Injury on the advice of a 
Medical Practitioner, as long as these are no more than would have been payable if the 
Insured Person had not been insured and no more than other Hospitals or doctors in the same 
locality would have charged for the same medical treatment. 
2.23 MEDICALLY NECESSARY treatment is defined as any treatment, tests, medication, or stay in 
Hospital or part of a stay in Hospital which 
- is required for the medical management of the Illness or Injury suffered by the insured; 
- must not exceed the level of care necessary to provide safe, adequate and appropriate 
medical care in scope, duration, or intensity; 
- must have been prescribed by a Medical Practitioner; 
- must confirm to the professional standards widely accepted in international medical 
practice or by the medical community in India. 
2.24 MEDICAL PRACTITIONER is a person who holds a valid registration from the Medical Council 
of any State or Medical Council of India or Council for Indian Medicine or for Homeopathy set 
up by the Government of India or a State Government and is thereby entitled to practice 
medicine within its jurisdiction; and is acting within the scope and jurisdiction of his license. 
Note: The Medical Practitioner should not be the insured or close family members. 
2.25 NETWORK HOSPITAL means Hospitals enlisted by the Company, TPA or jointly by the 
Company and TPA to provide medical services to an Insured by a cashless facility. 
2.26 NON-NETWORK HOSPITAL means any Hospital that is not part of the network. 
2.27 NOTIFICATION OF CLAIM means the process of intimating a claim to the Company or TPA 
through any of the recognized modes of communication. 
 
 
 
NIAHLGP21282V022021 
 
Page 5 of 28 
NEW INDIA FLEXI GROUP MEDICLAIM POLICY 
2.28 PRE-EXISTING DISEASE (PED) means any condition, ailment, Injury or Illness 
a. That is/are diagnosed by a physician within 48 months prior to the effective date of the 
Policy issued by Us and its reinstatement or 
b. For which medical advice or treatment was recommended by, or received from, a 
physician within 48 months prior to the effective date of the Policy or its reinstatement. 
2.29 PRE-HOSPITALISATION MEDICAL EXPENSES mean Medical Expenses incurred during the 
period preceding the Insured Person is Hospitalised, provided that: 
i. Such Medical Expenses are incurred for the same condition for which the Insured Person’s 
Hospitalization was required, and  
ii. The Inpatient Hospitalization claim for such Hospitalization is admissible by the Insurance 
Company. 
2.30 POST-HOSPITALISATION MEDICAL EXPENSES mean Medical Expenses incurred during the 
period immediately after the Insured Person is discharged from the hospital provided that: 
i. Such Medical Expenses are incurred for the same condition for which the Insured Person’s 
Hospitalisation was required, and  
ii. The Inpatient Hospitalisation claim for such Hospitalisation is admissible by the Insurance 
Company. 
2.31 QUALIFIED NURSEQualified nurse is a person who holds a valid registration from the Nursing 
Council of India or the Nursing Council of any state in India. 
2.32 REASONABLE AND CUSTOMARY CHARGES mean the charges for services or supplies, which 
are the standard charges for the specific provider and consistent with the prevailing charges in 
the geographical area for identical or similar services, taking into account the nature of the 
Illness / Injury involved. 
2.33 RENEWAL means the terms on which the contract of insurance can be renewed on mutual 
consent with a provision of grace period for treating the renewal continuous for the purpose 
of all waiting periods. 
2.34 ROOM RENT means the amount charged by a Hospital for the occupancy of a bed per day (24 
hours) basis and shall include associated medical expenses. 
2.35 SURGERY OR SURGICAL PROCEDURE means manual and / or operative procedure (s) required 
for treatment of an Illness or Injury, correction of deformities and defects, diagnosis and cure 
of diseases, relief of suffering or prolongation of life, performed in a Hospital or Day Care 
Centre by a Medical Practitioner. 
SPECIFIC DEFINITIONS 
2.36 AGE means age of the Insured person on last birthday as on date of commencement of the 
Policy. 
2.37 ASSOCIATE MEDICAL EXPENSES means medical expenses such as Professional fees of 
Surgeon, Anaesthetist, Consultant, Specialist; Anaesthesia, Blood, Oxygen, Operating Theatre 
Charges and Procedure Charges such as Dialysis, Chemotherapy, Radiotherapy & similar 
medical expenses related to the treatment. 
2.38 AYUSH TREATMENT refers to Hospitalisation treatments given under Ayurveda, Yoga and 
Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homeopathy systems. 
 
 
 
NIAHLGP21282V022021 
 
Page 6 of 28 
NEW INDIA FLEXI GROUP MEDICLAIM POLICY 
2.39 BREAK IN POLICY means the period of gap that occurs at the end of the existing policy term, 
when the premium due for renewal on a given policy is not paid on or before the premium 
renewal date or within 30 days thereof. 
2.40 INSURED PERSON means person(s) named in the schedule of the Policy. 
2.41 POLICY means these Policy wordings, the Policy Schedule and any applicable endorsements or 
extensions attaching to or forming part thereof. The Policy contains details of the extent of 
cover available to the Insured person, what is excluded from the cover and the terms & 
conditions on which the Policy is issued to The Insured person. 
2.42 POLICY PERIOD means period of one policy year as mentioned in the schedule for which the 
Policy is issued. 
2.43 POLICY SCHEDULE means the Policy Schedule attached to and forming part of Policy. 
2.44 POLICY YEAR means a period of twelve months beginning from the date of commencement of 
the policy period and ending on the last day of such twelve-month period. For the purpose of 
subsequent years, policy year shall mean a period of twelve months commencing from the 
end of the previous policy year and lapsing on the last day of such twelve-month period, till 
the policy period, as mentioned in the schedule. 
2.45 SUB-LIMIT means a cost sharing requirement under this policy in which We would not be 
liable to pay any amount in excess of the pre-defined limit. 
2.46 SUM INSURED is the maximum amount of coverage opted for each Insured Person and shown 
in the Schedule. 
2.47 THIRD PARTY ADMINISTRATORS (TPA) means a Company registered with the Authority, and 
engaged by an Insurer, for a fee or by whatever name called and as may be mentioned in the 
health services agreement, for providing health services. 
2.48 WAITING PERIOD means a period from the inception of this Policy during which specified 
diseases / treatments are not covered. On completion of the period, diseases / treatments 
shall be covered provided the Policy has been continuously renewed without any break. 
3.0 BENEFITS COVERED UNDER THE POLICY 
NOW THIS POLICY WITNESSES that subject to the terms, conditions, exclusions and definitions 
contained herein or endorsed or otherwise expressed here on the Company undertakes that if 
during the period stated in the Schedule or during the continuance of this policy by renewal 
any Insured Person shall contract any Illness (herein defined)or sustain any Injury (herein 
defined) and if such Injury shall require any such Insured Person, upon the advice of a duly 
qualified Medical practitioner (herein defined) or a surgeon  to incur Medical 
Expenses/Surgery at any Hospital / Day Care Center (herein defined)in India as an Inpatient, 
the Company will pay to the Insured Person the amount of such expenses as good fall under 
different heads mentioned below, and as are Reasonably and Customarily, and Medically 
Necessarily incurred thereof by or on behalf of such Insured Person. 
3.1 Room rent, Boarding, DMO / RMO / CMO / RMP Charges, Nursing (Including Injection / Drugs 
and Intra venous fluid administration expenses), not exceeding 1% of Sum Insured per day. 
 
 
 
NIAHLGP21282V022021 
 
Page 7 of 28 
NEW INDIA FLEXI GROUP MEDICLAIM POLICY 
3.2 Intensive Care Unit (ICU) / Intensive Cardiac Care Unit (ICCU), Intensivist charges, Monitor and 
Pulse Oxymeter expenses, not exceeding 2% of the sum insured per day. 
3.3 Associate Medical Expenses; such as Professional fees of Surgeon, Anaesthetist, Consultant, 
Specialist; Anaesthesia, Blood, Oxygen, Operating Theatre Charges and Procedure Charges 
such as Dialysis, Chemotherapy, Radiotherapy & similar medical expenses related to the 
treatment. 
3.4 Cost of Pharmacy and Consumables, Cost of Implants and Medical Devices and Cost of 
Diagnostics. 
3.5 Pre-hospitalization medical charges up to 30 days period. 
3.6 Post-hospitalization medical charges up to 60 days period. 
NOTE: SUB-LIMIT CLAUSE 
1. Proportionate Deduction: Proportionate Deduction is applicable on the Associate Medical 
Expenses, if the Insured Person opts for a higher Room than his eligible category. It shall be 
effected in the same proportion as the eligible rate per day bears to the actual rate per day 
of Room Rent. However, it is not applicable on  
1. Cost of Pharmacy and Consumables 
2. Cost of Implants and Medical Devices 
3. Cost of Diagnostics. 
Proportionate Deduction shall also not be applied in respect of Hospitals which do not 
follow differential billing or for those expenses in which differential billing is not adopted 
based on the room category, as evidenced by the Hospital’s schedule of charges / tariff. 
2. No payment shall be made under 3.3 other than as part of the hospitalization bill.  
3. However, the bills raised by Surgeon, Anesthetist directly and not included in the 
hospitalization bill may be reimbursed in the following manner:  
a. The reasonable, customary and Medically Necessary Surgeon fee and Anesthetist fee 
would be reimbursed, limited to the maximum of 25% of Sum Insured. The payment 
shall be reimbursed provided the insured pays such fee(s) through cheque and the 
Surgeon / Anesthetist provides a numbered bill. Bills given on letter-head of the 
Surgeon, Anesthetist would not be entertained.  
b. Fees paid in cash will be reimbursed up to a limit of Rs. 10,000/- only, provided the 
Surgeon/Anesthetist provides a numbered bill.  
(N.B: Company’s Liability in respect of all claims admitted during the Policy Period shall not exceed 
the Sum Insured per person mentioned in the schedule.) 
3.7 LIMIT ON PAYMENT FOR CATARACT: Company’s liability for payment of any claim relating to 
Cataract shall be limited to Actual or maximum of Rs.24000 (inclusive of all charges, excluding 
service tax), for each eye, whichever is less. 
3.8 AYUSH: Expenses incurred for Ayurvedic / Homeopathic / Unani Treatment are admissible up 
to 25% of the sum insured provided the treatment for Illness and accidental injuries, is taken 
in AYUSH Hospital.  
 
 
 
NIAHLGP21282V022021 
 
Page 8 of 28 
NEW INDIA FLEXI GROUP MEDICLAIM POLICY 
3.9 Ambulances services – 1.0 % of the sum insured or actual, whichever is less, subject to 
maximum of Rs. 2,500/- in case patient has to be shifted from residence to hospital for 
admission in Emergency Ward or ICU or from one Hospital to another Hospital by fully 
equipped ambulance for better medical facilities.  
3.10 Hospitalization expenses (excluding cost of organ) incurred on the donor during the course of 
organ transplant to the insured person. The Company’s liability towards expenses incurred on 
the donor and the insured recipient shall not exceed the sum insured of the insured person 
receiving the organ. 
3.11 SPECIFIC COVERAGES:  
a) Impairment of Persons’ intellectual faculties by usage of drugs, stimulants or depressants 
as prescribed by a medical practitioner is covered up to 5% of Sum Insured, maximum upto 
Rs. 25,000 per policy period, subject to it arising during treatment of covered illness for an 
admissible claim. This amount shall be part of the Sum Insured.  
b) Artificial life maintenance, including life support machine use, where such treatment will 
not result in recovery or restoration of the previous state of Health under any circumstances 
unless in a vegetative state as certified by the treating medical practitioner, is covered up to 
10% of Sum Insured and for a maximum of 15 days per policy period following admission for 
a covered illness. (Explanation: Expenses up to the date of confirmation by the treating 
doctor that the patient is in vegetative state shall be covered as per the terms and 
conditions of the policy contract). Such expenses shall be payable if required in conjunction 
to an admissible claim and shall be within the Sum Insured. 
c) Puberty and Menopause related Disorders: Treatment for any symptoms, Illness, 
complications arising due to physiological conditions associated with Puberty, Menopause 
such as menopausal bleeding or flushing is covered only as Inpatient procedure after 24 
months of continuous coverage. This cover will have a sub-limit of up to 25% of Sum Insured 
per policy period. 
d) Age Related Macular Degeneration (ARMD) is covered after 48 months of continuous 
coverage only for Intravitreal Injections and anti – VEGF medication. This cover will have a 
sub-limit of 10% of Sum Insured, maximum upto Rs. 75,000 per policy period. This limit shall 
be within the Sum Insured and does not increase the overall Sum Insured. 
e) Behavioural and Neuro Developmental Disorders: Disorders of adult personality and 
Disorders of speech and language including stammering, dyslexia; are covered as Inpatient 
procedure after 24 months of continuous coverage. This cover will have a sub-limit of 25% 
of Sum Insured per policy period. This limit shall be within the Sum Insured and does not 
increase the overall Sum Insured. 
f) Genetic diseases or disorders are covered with a sub-limit of 25% of Sum Insured per policy 
period with 48 months waiting periods. This limit shall be within the Sum Insured and does 
not increase the overall Sum Insured. 
Note:  For the coverages defined in 3.11 (a) to (f), waiting period's, if any, shall be applicable afresh 
i.e. for both New and Existing Policyholders w.e.f. 1st October 2020 or date of inception of 
first policy, whichever is later. Coverage for such Illness or procedures shall only be available 
after completion of the said waiting periods. 
 
 
 
NIAHLGP21282V022021 
 
Page 9 of 28 
NEW INDIA FLEXI GROUP MEDICLAIM POLICY 
g) Treatment of mental illness, stress or psychological disorders and neurodegenerative 
disorders: We shall indemnify the Hospital or the Insured the Medical Expenses (including 
Pre and Post Hospitalisation Expenses) related to following and they are covered after a 
waiting period of 48 months with a sub-limit up to 25% of Sum Insured per policy period.  
The below covers are subject to the patient simultaneously exhibiting the following traits 
and requiring Hospitalisation as per the treating Psychiatrist’s advice 
1. Major Depressive Disorder- when the patient is aggressive or violent. 
2. Acute psychotic conditions – aggressive / violent behavior or hallucinations, 
incoherent talking or agitation. 
3. Schizophrenia - esp. Psychotic episodes. 
4. Bipolar disorder - manic phase. 
Treatment of any Injury due to Suicidality shall not be covered. 
Condition 
Treatment shall be undertaken at a Hospital categorized as Mental Health Establishment or 
at a Hospital with a specific department for Mental Illness, under a Medical Practitioner 
qualified as Mental Health Professional. 
Exclusions 
Any kind of Psychological counselling, cognitive / family / group / behavior / palliative 
therapy or other kinds of psychotherapy for which Hospitalisation is not necessary shall not 
be covered. 
Note: For the coverages defined in 3.11 (g), waiting period shall be applicable for both New 
and Existing Policyholders w.e.f 16th August 2018 or date of inception of first policy, 
whichever is later. This Coverage shall only be available after completion of the said waiting 
period. 
3.12 COVERAGE FOR MODERN TREATMENTS OR PROCEDURES: The following procedures will be 
covered (wherever medically indicated) either as in patient or as part of day care treatment in 
a hospital up to the limit specified against each procedure during the policy period. 
S No 
Treatment or Procedure 
Limit (Per Policy Period) 
3.12.1 
Uterine Artery Embolization and HIFU (High intensity focused 
ultrasound) 
Upto 20% of Sum Insured subject 
to Maximum Rs. 2 Lakh  
3.12.2 
Balloon Sinuplasty. 
Upto 20% of Sum Insured subject 
to Maximum Rs. 2 Lakh 
3.12.3 
Deep Brain stimulation. 
Upto 50% of Sum Insured subject 
to Maximum Rs. 5 Lakh 
3.12.4 
Oral chemotherapy. 
Upto 10% of Sum Insured subject 
to Maximum Rs. 1 Lakh. 
3.12.5 
Immunotherapy- Monoclonal Antibody to be given as 
injection. 
Upto 25% of Sum Insured subject 
to Maximum Rs 2 Lakh. 
3.12.6 
Intravitreal injections. 
Upto 10% of Sum Insured subject 
to Maximum Rs.75,000. 
3.12.7 
Robotic surgeries. 
Upto 50% of Sum Insured subject 
to Maximum Rs. 5 Lakh. 
3.12.8 
Stereotactic radio surgeries. 
Upto 50% of Sum Insured subject 
to Maximum Rs. 3 Lakh. 
3.12.9 
Bronchial Thermoplasty. 
Upto 50% of Sum Insured subject 
 
 
 
NIAHLGP21282V022021 
 
Page 10 of 28 
NEW INDIA FLEXI GROUP MEDICLAIM POLICY 
to Maximum Rs. 2.5 Lakh. 
3.12.10 Vaporisation of the prostrate (Green laser treatment or 
holmium laser treatment). 
Upto 50% of Sum Insured subject 
to Maximum Rs. 2.5 Lakh. 
3.12.11 IONM - (Intra Operative Neuro Monitoring). 
Upto 10% of Sum Insured subject 
to Maximum Rs. 50,000. 
3.12.12 Stem cell therapy: Hematopoietic stem cells for bone marrow 
transplant for haematological conditions to be covered. 
Upto 50% of Sum Insured subject 
to Maximum Rs. 2.5 Lakh. 
 
4.0 EXCLUSIONS: 
The Company shall not be liable to make any payment under this policy in respect of: 
STANDARD EXCLUSIONS 
4.1 
PRE-EXISTING DISEASES (Code- Excl01) 
a. Expenses related to the treatment of a pre-existing Disease (PED) and its direct 
complications shall be excluded until the expiry of 48 months of continuous coverage 
after the date of inception of the first policy with us.  
b. In case of enhancement of Sum Insured the exclusion shall apply afresh to the extent of 
Sum Insured increase. 
c. If the Insured Person is continuously covered without any break as defined under the 
portability norms of the extant IRDAI (Health Insurance) Regulations then waiting period 
for the same would be reduced to the extent of prior coverage. 
d. Coverage under the policy after the expiry of 48 months for any pre-existing disease is 
subject to the same being declared at the time of application and accepted by us. 
4.2 
SPECIFIC WAITING PERIOD (Code- Excl02) 
a. Expenses related to the treatment of the following listed conditions, surgeries / 
treatments shall be excluded until the expiry of Ninety Days / 24 / 48 months of 
continuous coverage, as may be the case after the date of inception of the first policy 
with the insurer. This exclusion shall not be applicable for claims arising due to an 
accident. 
b. In case of enhancement of sum insured the exclusion shall apply afresh to the extent of 
sum insured increase. 
c. If any of the specified disease/procedure falls under the waiting period specified for pre-
existing diseases, then the longer of the two waiting periods shall apply. 
d. The waiting period for listed conditions shall apply even if contracted after the policy or 
declared and accepted without a specific exclusion. 
e. If the Insured Person is continuously covered without any break as defined under the 
applicable norms on portability stipulated by IRDAI, then waiting period for the same 
would be reduced to the extent of prior coverage. 
(i) 90 Days Waiting Period 
1. Diabetes Mellitus 
2. Hypertension 
3. Cardiac Conditions 
(ii) 24 Months waiting period  
1. Any Skin disorders  
 
 
 
NIAHLGP21282V022021 
 
Page 11 of 28 
NEW INDIA FLEXI GROUP MEDICLAIM POLICY 
2. All internal & external benign tumors, cysts, polyps of any kind, including benign 
breast lumps 
3. Benign Ear, Nose, Throat disorders 
4. Benign Prostate Hypertrophy 
5. Cataract & age-related eye ailments 
6. Gastric/ Duodenal Ulcer 
7. Gout & Rheumatism 
8. Hernia of all types 
9. Hydrocele 
10. Hysterectomy for Menorrhagia/Fibromyoma, Myomectomy and Prolapse of uterus 
11. Non-Infective Arthritis 
12. Piles, Fissure and Fistula in Anus 
13. Pilonidal Sinus, Sinusitis and related disorders 
14. Prolapse Inter Vertebral Disc unless arising from Accident 
15. Stone in Gall Bladder & Bile duct  
16. Stones in Urinary Systems 
17. Unknown Congenital Internal Anomaly 
18. Varicose Veins and Varicose Ulcers 
19. Puberty and Menopause related Disorders 
20. Behavioural and Neuro-Developmental Disorders:  
a. Disorders of adult personality 
b. Disorders of speech and language including stammering, dyslexia  
(iii) 48 Months waiting period 
1. Joint Replacement due to Degenerative Condition 
2. Age-related Osteoarthritis & Osteoporosis 
3. Treatment 
of 
mental 
Illness, 
stress 
or 
psychological 
disorders 
and 
neurodegenerative disorders. 
4. Age Related Macular Degeneration (ARMD) 
5. Genetic diseases or disorders 
6. External Congenital Diseases 
4.3 
FIRST THIRTY DAYS WAITING PERIOD (Code- Excl03) 
a. Expenses related to the treatment of any illness within 30 days from the first policy 
commencement date shall be excluded except claims arising due to an accident, 
provided the same are covered. 
b. This exclusion shall not, however, apply if the Insured Person has Continuous Coverage 
for more than twelve months. 
c. The within referred waiting period is made applicable to the enhanced sum insured in 
the event of granting higher sum insured subsequently. 
4.4 
PERMANENT EXCLUSIONS: Any medical expenses incurred for or arising out of:  
4.4.1 INVESTIGATION & EVALUATION (Code- Excl04) 
a. Expenses related to any admission primarily for diagnostics and evaluation purposes. 
b. Any diagnostic expenses which are not related or not incidental to the current diagnosis 
and treatment 
However, Treatment for any symptoms, Illness, complications arising due to physiological 
conditions for which aetiology is unknown is not excluded. It is covered with a Sub-Limit of 
upto 10% of Sum Insured per policy period. 
 
 
 
NIAHLGP21282V022021 
 
Page 12 of 28 
NEW INDIA FLEXI GROUP MEDICLAIM POLICY 
4.4.2 REST CURE, REHABILITATION AND RESPITE CARE (Code- Excl05) Expenses related to any 
admission primarily for enforced bed rest and not for receiving treatment. This also 
includes: 
a. Custodial care either at home or in a nursing facility for personal care such as help with 
activities of daily living such as bathing, dressing, moving around either by skilled nurses 
or assistant or non-skilled persons.  
b. Any services for people who are terminally ill to address physical, social, emotional and 
spiritual needs. 
However, Expenses related to any admission primarily for enteral feedings is not excluded, if 
the Oral intake is absent for a period of at-least 5 days. It will be covered for a Maximum 
period of 14 days in a Policy Period. 
4.4.3 OBESITY/ WEIGHT CONTROL (Code- Excl06) Expenses related to the surgical treatment of 
obesity that does not fulfil all the below conditions: 
a. Surgery to be conducted is upon the advice of the Doctor 
b. The surgery/Procedure conducted should be supported by clinical protocols 
c. The member has to be 18 years of age or older and 
d. Body Mass Index (BMI); 
1. greater than or equal to 40 or 
2. greater than or equal to 35 in conjunction with any of the following severe co-
morbidities following failure of less invasive methods of weight loss: 
i. Obesity-related cardiomyopathy 
ii. Coronary heart disease  
iii. Severe Sleep Apnea 
iv. Uncontrolled Type2 Diabetes 
4.4.4 CHANGE-OF-GENDER TREATMENTS (Code- Excl07) 
Expenses related to any treatment, including surgical management, to change 
characteristics of the body to those of the opposite sex. 
4.4.5 COSMETIC OR PLASTIC SURGERY (Code- Excl08) 
Expenses for cosmetic or plastic surgery or any treatment to change appearance unless for 
reconstruction following an Accident, Burn(s) or Cancer or as part of medically necessary 
treatment to remove a direct and immediate health risk to the insured. For this to be 
considered a medical necessity, it must be certified by the attending Medical Practitioner. 
4.4.6 HAZARDOUS OR ADVENTURE SPORTS (Code- Excl09) 
Expenses related to any treatment necessitated due to participation as a professional in 
hazardous or adventure sports, including but not limited to, para-jumping, rock climbing, 
mountaineering, rafting, motor racing, horse racing or scuba diving, hand gliding, sky diving, 
deep-sea diving. 
However, Treatment related to Injury or Illness associated with Hazardous activities related 
to particular line of employment or occupation (not for recreational purpose) is not excluded. 
4.4.7 BREACH OF LAW (Code- Excl10) 
Expenses for treatment directly arising from or consequent upon any Insured Person 
committing or attempting to commit a breach of law with criminal intent. 
4.4.8 EXCLUDED PROVIDERS (Code-Excl11) 
 
 
 
NIAHLGP21282V022021 
 
Page 13 of 28 
NEW INDIA FLEXI GROUP MEDICLAIM POLICY 
Expenses incurred towards treatment in any hospital or by any Medical Practitioner or any 
other provider specifically excluded by the Insurer and disclosed in its website / notified to 
the policyholders are not admissible.  However, in case of life-threatening situations or 
following an accident, expenses up to the stage of stabilization are payable but not the 
complete claim. 
4.4.9 Treatment for, Alcoholism, drug or substance abuse or any addictive condition and 
consequences thereof. (Code- Excl12) 
4.4.10 Treatments received in health hydros, nature cure clinics, spas or similar establishments or 
private beds registered as a nursing home attached to such establishments or where 
admission is arranged wholly or partly for domestic reasons. (Code- Excl13) 
4.4.11 Dietary supplements and substances that can be purchased without prescription, including 
but not limited to Vitamins, minerals and organic substances unless prescribed by a medical 
practitioner as part of hospitalization claim or day care procedure. (Code- Excl14) 
4.4.12 REFRACTIVE ERROR (Code- Excl15) 
Expenses related to the treatment for correction of eye sight due to refractive error less 
than 7.5 dioptres. 
4.4.13 UNPROVEN TREATMENTS (Code- Excl16) 
Expenses related to any unproven treatment, services and supplies for or in connection with 
any treatment. Unproven treatments are treatments, procedures or supplies that lack 
significant medical documentation to support their effectiveness. 
4.4.14 STERILITY AND INFERTILITY (Code- Excl17) 
Expenses related to sterility and infertility. This includes: 
a. Any type of contraception, sterilization 
b. Assisted Reproduction services including artificial insemination and advanced 
reproductive technologies such as IVF, ZIFT, GIFT, ICSI 
c. Gestational Surrogacy 
d. Reversal of sterilization 
4.4.15 MATERNITY EXPENSES (Code - Excl18) 
a. Medical treatment expenses traceable to childbirth (including complicated deliveries 
and caesarean sections incurred during hospitalization) except ectopic pregnancy; 
b. Expenses towards miscarriage (unless due to an accident) and lawful medical 
termination of pregnancy during the policy period. 
SPECIFIC EXCLUSIONS 
4.4.16 War (whether declared or not) and war like occurrence or invasion, acts of foreign enemies, 
hostilities, civil war, rebellion, revolutions, insurrections, mutiny, military or usurped power, 
seizure, capture, arrest, restraints and detainment of all kinds. 
4.4.17 Nuclear, chemical or biological attack or weapons, contributed to, caused by, resulting from 
or from any other cause or event contributing concurrently or in any other sequence to the 
loss, claim or expense. For the purpose of this exclusion: 
a. Nuclear attack or weapons means the use of any nuclear weapon or device or waste or 
combustion of nuclear fuel or the emission, discharge, dispersal, release or escape of 
fissile/ fusion material emitting a level of radioactivity capable of causing any Illness, 
 
 
 
NIAHLGP21282V022021 
 
Page 14 of 28 
NEW INDIA FLEXI GROUP MEDICLAIM POLICY 
incapacitating disablement or death. 
b. Chemical attack or weapons means the emission, discharge, dispersal, release or escape 
of any solid, liquid or gaseous chemical compound which, when suitably distributed, is 
capable of causing any Illness, incapacitating disablement or death. 
c. Biological attack or weapons means the emission, discharge, dispersal, release or escape 
of any pathogenic (disease producing) micro-organisms and/or biologically produced 
toxins (including genetically modified organisms and chemically synthesized toxins) 
which are capable of causing any Illness, incapacitating disablement or death. 
4.4.18 Circumcision unless required to treat Injury or Illness.  
4.4.19 Vaccination & Inoculation. 
4.4.20 Cost of braces, equipment or external prosthetic devices, non-durable implants, eyeglasses, 
Cost of spectacles and contact lenses, hearing aids including cochlear implants, durable 
medical equipment.  
4.4.21 All types of Dental treatments except arising out of an accident.  
4.4.22 Convalescence, general debility.  
4.4.23 Bodily injury or sickness due to willful or deliberate exposure to danger (except in an 
attempt to save human life), intentional self-inflicted injury, attempted suicide. 
However, Failure to seek or follow medical advice or failure to follow treatment is not 
excluded. It is covered with a sub-limit of 10% of Sum Insured per policy period. 
4.4.24 Naturopathy Treatment. 
4.4.25 Instrument used in treatment of Sleep Apnea Syndrome (C.P.A.P.) and continuous 
Peritoneal Ambulatory dialysis (C.P.A.D.) and Oxygen Concentrator for Bronchial Asthmatic 
condition. 
4.4.26 Stem cell implantation / surgery for other than those treatments mentioned in clause 
3.12.12. 
4.4.27 Domiciliary Hospitalization. 
4.4.28 Treatment taken outside India. 
4.4.29 Change of treatment from one system to another unless recommended by the consultant / 
hospital under whom the treatment is taken. 
4.4.30 Service charges or any other charges levied by hospital, except registration/admission 
charges.  
4.4.31 Treatment such as Rotational Field Quantum Magnetic Resonance (RFQMR), External 
Counter Pulsation (ECP), Enhanced External Counter Pulsation (EECP), Hyperbaric Oxygen 
Therapy. 
 
 
 
 
 
NIAHLGP21282V022021 
 
Page 15 of 28 
NEW INDIA FLEXI GROUP MEDICLAIM POLICY 
5.0 GENERAL TERMS AND CLAUSES: 
STANDARD GENERAL TERMS AND CLAUSES 
5.1 MULTIPLE POLICIES: 
1. In case of multiple policies taken by Insured Person during a period from the Company or 
one or more Insurers to indemnify treatment costs, Insured Person shall have the right to 
require a settlement of Insured Person’s claim in terms of any of his/her policies. In all 
such cases the Company, if chosen by Insured Person, shall be obliged to settle the claim 
as long as the claim is within the limits of and according to the terms of this Policy. 
2. Insured having multiple policies shall also have the right to prefer claims under this policy 
for the amounts disallowed under any other policy / policies, even if the Sum Insured is 
not exhausted. Then We shall independently settle the claim subject to the terms and 
conditions of this Policy.  
3. If the amount to be claimed exceeds the Sum Insured under a single policy after, Insured 
Person shall have the right to choose Insurers from whom You wants to claim the balance 
amount. 
4. Where an Insured has policies from more than one Insurer to cover the same risk on 
indemnity basis, the Insured shall only be indemnified the Hospitalisation costs in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of the chosen policy. 
Note: The Insured Person must disclose such other insurance at the time of making a claim 
under this Policy.  
5.2 CANCELLATION CLAUSE: The policy may be renewed by mutual consent. The company shall 
not however be bound to give notice that it is due for renewal and the Company may at any 
time cancel this Policy by sending the Insured 30 days’ notice by registered letter at the 
Insured’s last known address and in such event the Company shall refund to the Insured a pro-
rata premium for unexpired Policy Period. The Company shall, however, remain liable for any 
claim which arose prior to the date of cancellation. 
The Insured may at any time cancel this policy and in such event the Company shall allow 
refund of premium at Company’s short period rate only (table given here below) provided no 
claim has occurred upto the date of cancellation. 
PERIOD OF RISK 
RATE OF PREMIUM TO BE CHARGED 
Up to one month 
1/4th of the annual rate 
Up to three months 
½ of the annual rate 
Up to six months  
3/4th of the annual rate 
Exceeding six months 
Full annual rate 
 
5.3 FRAUD, MISREPRESENTATION, CONCEALMENT: The policy shall be null and void and no 
benefits shall be payable in the event of misrepresentation, misdescription or nondisclosure 
of any material fact/particulars if such claim be in any manner fraudulent or supported by any 
fraudulent means or device whether by the Insured Person or by any other person acting on 
his/her behalf. 
5.4 RENEWAL CLAUSE: The Company sends renewal notice as a matter of courtesy. If the insured 
does not receive the renewal notice it will not amount to any deficiency of service. 
 
 
 
NIAHLGP21282V022021 
 
Page 16 of 28 
NEW INDIA FLEXI GROUP MEDICLAIM POLICY 
The Company shall not be responsible or liable for non-renewal of the policy due to non-
receipt /delayed receipt of renewal notice or due to any other reason whatsoever. 
We shall be entitled to decline renewal if: 
a) Any fraud, moral hazard/misrepresentation or suppression by You or any one acting on 
Your behalf is found either in obtaining insurance or subsequently in relation thereto, or 
non-cooperation of the Insured Person, or 
b) We have discontinued issue of the Policy, in which event You shall however have the 
option for renewal under any similar Policy being issued by Us; provided however, benefits 
payable shall be subject to the terms contained in such other Policy, or 
c) You fail to remit Premium for renewal before expiry of the Policy Period.   We may accept 
renewal of the Policy if it is effected within thirty days (grace period) of the expiry of the 
Policy Period.  On such acceptance of renewal, we, however shall not be liable for any 
claim arising out of Illness contracted or Injury sustained or Hospitalization commencing in 
the interim period after expiry of the earlier Policy and prior to date of commencement of 
subsequent Policy 
5.5 PORTABILITY AND MIGRATION:  
MIGRATION: 
You will have the option to migrate the policy to other Health Insurance products/plans 
offered by the company by applying for migration of the policy at-least 30 days before the 
policy renewal date as per IRDAI guidelines on Migration. If You are presently covered and has 
been continuously covered without any lapses under any Health Insurance product/plan 
offered by the Company, then You will get the accrued continuity benefits in waiting periods 
as per IRDAI guidelines on Migration. For detailed guidelines on Migration. Kindly refer the 
link https://www.irdai.gov.in/ADMINCMS/cms/frmGeneral_NoYearList.aspx?DF=RL&mid=4.2 
PORTABILITY: 
You will have the option to port the policy to other Insurers by applying to such Insurer to 
port the entire policy along with all the members of the family, if any, at-least 45 days before, 
but not earlier than 60 days from the policy renewal date as per IRDAI guidelines related to 
portability. If such person is presently covered and has been continuously covered without 
any lapses under any Health Insurance policy with an Indian General/Health Insurer, the 
proposed Insured person will get the accrued continuity benefits in waiting periods as per 
IRDAI guidelines on portability.  For detailed guidelines on Portability. Kindly refer the link 
https://www.irdai.gov.in/ADMINCMS/cms/frmGeneral_NoYearList.aspx?DF=RL&mid=4.2 
5.6 MORATORIUM PERIOD: After completion of eight continuous years under this policy no look 
back would be applied. This period of eight years is called as moratorium period. The 
moratorium would be applicable for the Sums Insured of the first policy and subsequently 
completion of eight continuous years would be applicable from date of enhancement of Sums 
Insured only on the enhanced limits. After the expiry of Moratorium Period no claim under 
this policy shall be contestable except for proven fraud and permanent exclusions specified in 
the policy contract. The policies would however be subject to all limits, sub limits, co-
payments as per the policy. 
5.7 GRIEVANCE REDRESSAL: In the event of Insured has any grievance relating to the insurance, 
Insured Personmay contact any of the Grievance Cells at Regional Offices of the Company or 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman under the jurisdiction of which the Policy Issuing Office 
 
 
 
NIAHLGP21282V022021 
 
Page 17 of 28 
NEW INDIA FLEXI GROUP MEDICLAIM POLICY 
falls. The contact details of the office of the Insurance Ombudsman are provided in the 
Annexure II. 
Senior Citizens may write to seniorcitizencare.ho@newindia.co.in 
5.8 
PAYMENT OF CLAIM:  
i. The Company shall settle or reject a claim, as may be the case, within thirty days of the 
receipt of the last ‘necessary’ document. 
ii. While efforts will be made by the Company to not call for any document not listed in 
Clause 5.11, where any additional document or clarification is necessary to take a decision 
on the claim, such additional documents will be called for. 
iii. All necessary claim documents pertaining to Hospitalisation should be furnished by the 
Insured Person in original to the TPA (as mentioned in the Schedule), within thirty days 
from the date of discharge from the Hospital. However, claims filed even beyond such 
period will be considered if there are valid reasons for delay in submission. 
a. In case of any deficiency in submission of documents, the TPA shall issue a deficiency 
request. 
b. In case of non-submission of documents requested in the deficiency request within 
seven days from the date of receipt of the deficiency request, three reminders shall be 
sent by the TPA at an interval of seven days each.  
c. The claim shall stand repudiated if the documents, mandatory for taking the decision of 
admissibility of the Claim, are not submitted within seven days of the third reminder. 
If the required documents are such that it does not affect the admissibility of the claim 
and is limited to payment of certain expenditure only, the Claim will be paid after 
reducing such amount from the admissible amount. 
In case of any delay, such claims shall be paid by Us with a penal interest as per Regulation 
9(6) of IRDAI (Protection of Policyholders’ Interests) Regulations, 2017 as modified from time 
to time. 
All admissible claims shall be payable in Indian Currency.  
SPECIFIC TERMS AND CLAUSES 
5.9 COMMUNICATION: Every notice or communication to be given or made under this policy shall 
be delivered in writing at the address as shown in the Schedule. 
5.10 PREMIUM PAYMENT: The premium payable under this policy shall be paid in advance. No 
receipt for Premium shall be valid except on the official form of the Company. The due 
payment of premium and the observance and fulfillment of the terms, provisions, conditions 
and endorsements of this policy by the Insured Person in so far as they relate to anything to 
be done or complied with by the Insured Person shall be condition precedent to any liability of 
the Company to make any payment under this policy. No waiver of any terms, provisions, 
conditions and endorsements of this policy shall be valid, unless made in writing and signed by 
an authorized official of the Company. 
5.11 NOTICE OF CLAIM: Preliminary notice of claim with particulars relating to Policy Number, 
name of insured person in respect of whom claim is to be made, nature of Illness / Injury and 
Name and Address of the attending Medical Practitioner / Hospital / Nursing Home should be 
given to the Company / TPA within 7 days from the date of hospitalization in respect of 
reimbursement claims. 
 
 
 
NIAHLGP21282V022021 
 
Page 18 of 28 
NEW INDIA FLEXI GROUP MEDICLAIM POLICY 
Final claim along with hospital receipted original Bills / Cash memos, claim form and 
documents as listed in the claim form below should be submitted to the Policy issuing Office / 
TPA not later than 30 days of discharge from the hospital. The insured may also be required to 
give the Company / TPA such additional information and assistance as the Company / TPA 
may require in dealing with the claim. 
a. Bill, Receipt and Discharge certificate / card from the Hospital. 
b. Cash Memos from the Hospitals(s) / Chemists(s), supported by proper prescriptions. 
c. Receipt and Pathological test reports from Pathologist supported by the note from the 
attending Medical Practitioner / Surgeon recommending such Pathological tests / 
pathological. 
d. Surgeon's certificate stating nature of operation performed and Surgeons’ bill and receipt. 
e. Attending Doctor's/ Consultant's/ Specialist's / Anesthetist’s bill and receipt, and 
certificate regarding diagnosis. 
f. Certificate from attending Medical Practitioner / Surgeon that the patient is fully cured. 
Waiver: Waiver of period of intimation may be considered in extreme cases of hardships 
where it is proved to the satisfaction of the Company/TPA that under the circumstances in 
which the insured was placed it was not possible for him or any other person to give such 
notice or file claim within the prescribed time limit. This waiver cannot be claimed as a matter 
of right. 
5.12 PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Any medical practitioner authorized by the Company shall be 
allowed to examine the Insured Person in case of any alleged injury or Illness requiring 
Hospitalization when and so often as the same may reasonably be required on behalf of the 
Company. 
5.13 The Company shall not be liable to make any payment under this policy in respect of any claim 
if such claim be in any manner fraudulent or supported by any fraudulent means or device 
whether by the Insured Person or by any other person acting on his behalf. 
 
5.14 DISCLAIMER OF CLAIM: If the Company shall disclaim liability to the Insured for any claim 
hereunder and if the Insured shall not within 12 calendar months from the date of receipt of 
the notice of such disclaimer notify the Company in writing that he does not accept such 
disclaimer and intends to recover his claim from the Company then the claim shall for all 
purposes be deemed to have been abandoned and shall not thereafter be recoverable 
hereunder. 
5.15 All medical / surgical treatment under this policy shall have to be taken in India and admissible 
claims thereof shall be payable in Indian currency. 
6.1 LOW CLAIM RATIO DISCOUNT (BONUS): Low Claim Ratio Discount at the following scale will 
be allowed on the Total premium at renewal only depending upon the incurred claims ratio 
for the entire group insured under the Group Mediclaim Insurance Policy for the preceding 3 
completed years excluding the year immediately preceding the date of renewal. Where the 
Group Mediclaim Insurance Policy has not been in force for 3 completed years, such shorter 
period of completed years excluding the year immediately preceding the date of renewal will 
be taken into account. 
Incurred Claim ratio under the Group Policy 
Discount (%) 
 
 
 
NIAHLGP21282V022021 
 
Page 19 of 28 
NEW INDIA FLEXI GROUP MEDICLAIM POLICY 
Not Exceeding 60% 
5% 
Not Exceeding 50% 
15% 
Not Exceeding 40% 
25% 
Not Exceeding 30% 
35% 
Not Exceeding 25% 
40% 
 
6.2 HIGH CLAIM RATIO LOADING (MALUS): The Total Premium payable at renewal of the group 
policy will be loaded at the following scale depending upon the incurred claims ratio for the 
entire group insured under the Group Mediclaim Insurance Policy for the preceding 3 
completed years excluding the year immediately preceding the date of renewal Where the 
Group Mediclaim Policy has not been in force for the 3 completed years, such shorter periods 
of completed years excluding the year immediately preceding the date of renewal will be 
taken into account. 
Incurred Claim Ratio under the Group Policy 
Loading (%) 
Between 70% and 100% 
25% 
Between 101% and 125% 
55% 
Between 126% and 150% 
90% 
Between 151% and 175% 
120% 
Between 176% and 200% 
150% 
Over 200% 
Cover to be reviewed 
 
Note: (1) Low Claim Ratio Discount (Bonus) or High Claim Ratio Loading Malus will be 
applicable to the Premium at renewal of the policy depending on the incurred Claim 
Ratio for the entire Group Insured. 
(2) Incurred claim would mean claims paid plus claims outstanding at the end of the 
period minus O/S at the beginning of the period in respect of the entire group insured 
under the policy during the relevant period. 
7.1 MATERNITY EXPENSES BENEFIT EXTENSION (OPTIONAL COVER): This is an optional cover 
which can be obtained on payment of 10% of the total basic premium for all the Insured 
Persons under the Policy Total basic premium means the total premium computed before 
applying Group Discount and / or High Claim Ratio Loading, Low Claim Discount and special 
discount in lieu of agency commission. 
Option for maternity Benefits has to be exercised at the inception of the policy period and no 
refund is allowable in case of Insured’s cancellation of this option during currency of the 
policy. 
The maximum benefit allowable under this clause will be upto Rs.50,000/- or the Sum Insured 
opted by the member of the group whichever is lower. 
Special conditions applicable to Maternity Expenses Benefit Extension: 
1. These Benefits are admissible only if the expenses are incurred in Hospital as inpatients in 
India. 
2. A waiting period of 9 months is applicable for payment of any claim relating to normal 
delivery or caesarian section or abdominal operation for extra uterine pregnancy. The 
waiting period may be relaxed only in case of delivery miscarriage or abortion induced by 
accident or other medical emergency. 
 
 
 
NIAHLGP21282V022021 
 
Page 20 of 28 
NEW INDIA FLEXI GROUP MEDICLAIM POLICY 
3. Claim in respect of delivery for only first two children and / or surgeries associated 
therewith will be considered in respect of any one Insured Person covered under the Policy 
or any renewal thereof. Those Insured Persons who are already having two or more living 
children will not be eligible for this benefit. 
4. Expenses incurred in connection with voluntary medical termination of pregnancy during 
the first 12weeks from the date of conception are not covered. 
5. Pre-natal and post-natal expenses are not covered unless admitted in Hospital and 
treatment is taken there 
Note: When Group Policy is extended to include Maternity Expenses Benefit, the exclusion 
4.4.15 of the policy stands deleted. 
8.0 
CASHLESS SERVICE THROUGH TPAS: Claims in respect of Cashless access services will be 
through the agreed list of network of hospital and is subject to pre-admission authorization. 
The TPA shall, upon getting the related medical information from the Insured Person / 
network provider, verify that the person is eligible to claim under the policy and after 
satisfying itself will issue a pre-authorization letter / guarantee of payment letter to the 
hospital   mentioning the sum guaranteed as payable also the ailment for which the person is 
seeking to be admitted as a patient. The TPA reserves the right to deny pre-authorization in 
case the insured person is unable to provide the relevant medical details as required by the 
TPA. The TPA will make it clear to the insured person that denial of Cashless Access is in no 
way construed to be denial of treatment. The insured person may obtain the treatment as per 
his /her treating Medical Practitioners medical advice and later on submit the full claim 
papers to the TPA for reimbursement. 
9.0 MEDICAL EXPENSES FOLLOWING UNDER TWO POLICY PERIODS: If the claim event falls within 
two Policy Periods, the claims shall be paid taking into consideration the available Sum 
Insured of the expiring Policy only. Sum Insured of the renewed Policy will not be available for 
the Hospitalisation (including Pre & Post Hospitalisation Expenses), which has commenced in 
the expiring Policy. Claim shall be settled on per event basis. 
10.0 REPUDIATION OF CLAIM: A claim, which is not covered under the Policy conditions, can be 
rejected. All the documents submitted to TPA shall be electronically collected by Us for 
settlement and denial of the claims by the appropriate authority. 
With Our prior approval Communication of repudiation shall be sent to You, explicitly 
mentioning the grounds for repudiation, through Our TPA. 
11.0 PROTECTION OF POLICY HOLDERS’ INTEREST:  This policy is subject to IRDAI (Protection of 
Policyholders’ Interest) Regulation, 2017. 
12.0 ARBITRATION: If we admit liability for any claim but any difference or dispute arises as to the 
amount payable for any claim the same shall be decided by reference to Arbitration. 
The Arbitrator shall be appointed in accordance with the provisions of the Arbitration and 
Conciliation Act, 1996. 
No reference to Arbitration shall be made unless We have Admitted our liability for a claim in 
writing. 
If a claim is declined and within 12 calendar months from such disclaimer any suit or 
proceeding is not filed then the claim shall for all purposes be deemed to have been 
abandoned and shall not thereafter be recoverable hereunder. 
 
 
 
NIAHLGP21282V022021 
 
Page 21 of 28 
NEW INDIA FLEXI GROUP MEDICLAIM POLICY 
13.0 The expenses that are not covered in this policy are placed under List-I of Annexure-I. The list 
of expenses that are to be subsumed into room charges, or procedure charges or costs of 
treatment are placed under List-II, List-III and List-IV of Annexure-I respectively. 
14.0 SPECIAL CONDITIONS: The Policy is subject to deviations from the standard wordings as 
mentioned in the schedule of the policy. 
The relevant cover’s opted by the Insured shall be specified in the schedule. The general terms 
and conditions of the policy shall be applicable to these optional coverages. The list of 
optional coverages are as under:  
14.1 
OPD COVERAGE: It is hereby declared and agreed at the request of the Insured that 
Expenses related to Outpatient treatment covered. The limits will be as mentioned in the 
Schedule. 
14.2 
REASONABLE AND CUSTOMARY CHARGES: It is hereby declared and agreed at the request 
of the Insured that “Reasonable and Customary Expenses” mentioned in Clause 3.0 stands 
waived. 
14.3 
ROOM RENT / ICU / ICCU: It is hereby declared and agreed at the request of the Insured 
that limits as stated in clause 3.1 & 3.2 stands modified. The limits will be as mentioned in 
the schedule. 
14.4 
WAIVER OF PROPORTIONATE DEDUCTION: It is hereby declared and agreed at the request 
of the Insured that Sub-limit clause 1 applicable to Clause 3.3 stands deleted. 
14.5 
SPECIALIST/OUTSIDE MEDICAL PRACTITIONER: It is hereby declared and agreed at the 
request of the Insured that Sub-limit clause 3 applicable to Clause 3.3 stands modified. The 
limits will be as mentioned in the schedule. 
14.6 
PRE & POST HOSPITALISATION MEDICAL EXPENSES: It is hereby declared and agreed at the 
request of the Insured that limits as stated in Clause 3.5 & 3.6 stands modified. The limits 
will be as mentioned in the schedule. 
14.7 
CATARACT: It is hereby declared and agreed at the request of the Insured that Clause 3.7 
stands modified. The limits will be as mentioned in the schedule. 
14.8 
AYUSH COVERAGE: It is hereby declared and agreed at the request of the Insured that 
Clause 3.8 stands modified. The limits will be as mentioned in the schedule. 
14.9 
AMBULANCE SERVICES: It is hereby declared and agreed at the request of the Insured that 
Clause 3.9 stands modified. The limits will be as mentioned in the schedule. 
14.10 DONOR SUM INSURED: It is hereby declared and agreed at the request of the Insured that 
Clause 3.10 stands modified. The limits will be as mentioned in the schedule. 
14.11 SPECIFIC COVERAGES: It is hereby declared and agreed at the request of the Insured that 
Clause 3.11 stands modified. The limits will be as mentioned in the schedule. 
14.12 COVERAGE FOR MODERN TREATMENTS OR PROCEDURES: It is hereby declared and agreed 
at the request of the Insured that Clause 3.12 stands modified. The limits will be as 
mentioned in the schedule. 
14.13 PRE-EXISTING DISEASE/CONDITION: It is hereby declared and agreed at the request of the 
 
 
 
NIAHLGP21282V022021 
 
Page 22 of 28 
NEW INDIA FLEXI GROUP MEDICLAIM POLICY 
Insured that Exclusion 4.1 for “Pre-Existing Diseases (Code- Excl01)” stands deleted. 
14.14 2/4 YEARS WAITING PERIOD: It is hereby declared and agreed at the request of the Insured 
that Exclusion 4.2 for “Specific Waiting Period (Code- Excl02)” stands deleted. 
14.15 30 DAYS WAITING PERIOD: It is hereby declared and agreed at the request of the Insured 
that Exclusion 4.3 for “First Thirty Days Waiting Period (Code- Excl03)” stands deleted. 
14.16 VACCINATION: It is hereby declared and agreed at the request of the Insured that exclusion 
4.4.19 stands modified. The coverage and limits will be as listed in the schedule. 
14.17 ADDITIONAL ITEMS COVERAGE: It is hereby declared and agreed at the request of the 
Insured that Exclusion 4.4.20 stands modified. The coverage will be as listed in the schedule. 
14.18 DENTAL TREATMENT: It is hereby declared and agreed at the request of the Insured that 
Exclusion 4.4.21 stands modified. The coverage and limits will be as listed in the schedule. 
14.19 INFERTILITY AND STERILITY: It is hereby declared and agreed at the request of the Insured 
that one of the permanent exclusion that is “Infertility and Sterility” stated in Clause 4.4.14 
stands deleted. The coverage and limits will be as mentioned in the schedule. 
14.20 HAZARDOUS SPORT: It is hereby declared and agreed at the request of the Insured that 
Clause 4.4.6 stands deleted. The limits will be as mentioned in the schedule. 
14.21 INVESTIGATION & EVALUATION: It is hereby declared and agreed at the request of the 
Insured that Clause 4.4.1 stands deleted. The limits will be as mentioned in the schedule. 
14.22 MATERNITY EXPENSES: It is hereby declared and agreed at the request of the Insured that 
Exclusion 4.4.15 stands deleted & Clause 7.1 stands modified. The coverage and limits will 
be as listed in the schedule. 
14.23 NEWBORN BABY: It is hereby declared and agreed at the request of the Insured that 
“Newborn Baby” stands covered from day one. The limits will be as mentioned in the 
schedule. 
14.24 STEM CELL TREATMENT: It is hereby declared and agreed at the request of the Insured that 
Exclusion 4.4.26 stands modified. The coverage and limits will be as listed in the schedule. 
14.25 DOMICILIARY HOSPITALISATION: It is hereby declared and agreed at the request of the 
Insured that Exclusion 4.4.27 stands deleted. The limits will be as mentioned in the 
schedule. 
14.26 OVERSEAS COVERAGE: It is hereby declared and agreed at the request of the Insured that 
Exclusion 4.4.28 stands deleted. The limits will be as mentioned in the schedule. 
14.27 SERVICE CHARGES: It is hereby declared and agreed at the request of the Insured that 
Exclusion 4.4.30 stands deleted. The limits will be as mentioned in the schedule. 
14.28 RFQMR/ECP/EECP: It is hereby declared and agreed at the request of the Insured that 
Exclusion 4.4.31 stands deleted. The limits will be as mentioned in the schedule. 
14.29 NOTICE OF CLAIM: It is hereby declared and agreed at the request of the Insured that 
Clause 5.11 stands modified. The limits will be as mentioned in the schedule. 
 
 
 
NIAHLGP21282V022021 
 
Page 23 of 28 
NEW INDIA FLEXI GROUP MEDICLAIM POLICY 
14.30 SUBMISSION OF CLAIM DOCUMENTS: It is hereby declared and agreed at the request of the 
Insured that Clause 5.11 stands modified. The limits will be as mentioned in the schedule. 
14.31 CORPORATE BUFFER: It is hereby declared and agreed at the request of the Insured that 
“Corporate Buffer” stands included in the policy. Corporate Buffer means additional Sum 
Insured available for the whole group. The limits will be as mentioned in the schedule. 
14.32 AILMENT CAPPING: It is hereby declared and agreed at the request of the Insured that 
capping for specific ailments stands modified. The limits will be as listed in the schedule. 
14.33 LASIK SURGERY: It is hereby declared and agreed at the request of the Insured that “Lasik 
surgery” stands covered in the policy. The limits will be as mentioned in the schedule. 
14.34 TOP-UP COVER: It is hereby declared and agreed at the request of the Insured that “Top-up 
cover” stands included in the policy. Top-up means additional Sum Insured available for 
individual Insured/family, which can be utilized once the basic Sum Insured is exhausted. 
The limits will be as mentioned in the schedule. 
14.35 VOLUNTARY DEDUCTIBLE/CO-PAY: It is hereby declared and agreed at the request of the 
Insured that “Voluntary deductible/co-pay” will be applicable in each and every claim. The 
limits will be as listed in the schedule. 
14.36 DAY CARE TREATMENT: It is hereby declared and agreed at the request of the Insured that 
“Day Care Treatment” listed in Clause 2.15 stands modified. The coverage and limits will be 
as listed in the schedule. 
14.37 EYE CARE: It is hereby declared and agreed at the request of the Insured that “Eye Care 
treatments” stands covered the policy. The coverage and limits will be as listed in the 
schedule. 
14.38 TERRORISM: It is hereby declared and agreed at the request of the Insured that “Injury 
arising out of terrorism” stands covered the policy. The coverage and limits will be as listed 
in the schedule. 
14.39 HEALTH CHECKUP: It is hereby declared and agreed at the request of the Insured that cost 
of Health checkup will be payable under the policy. The limits will be as mentioned in the 
schedule. 
14.40 TRAUMA CARE: It is hereby declared and agreed at the request of the Insured that 
treatment of Trauma will be payable under the policy. The limits will be as mentioned in the 
schedule. 
14.41 CYBER KNIFE SURGERY: It is hereby declared and agreed at the request of the Insured that 
Cyber Knife surgery will be covered in the policy. The limits will be as mentioned in the 
schedule. 
14.42 ORAL CHEMOTHERAPY: It is hereby declared and agreed at the request of the Insured that 
cost of oral chemotherapy will be payable under the policy. The limits will be as mentioned 
in the schedule. 
14.43 ANIMAL BITE: It is hereby declared and agreed at the request of the Insured that treatment 
of Animal bite will be payable under the policy. The coverage and limits will be as mentioned 
in the schedule. 
 
 
 
NIAHLGP21282V022021 
 
Page 24 of 28 
NEW INDIA FLEXI GROUP MEDICLAIM POLICY 
14.44 HOSPITAL CASH: It is hereby declared and agreed at the request of the Insured that Hospital 
Cash will be payable under the policy. The limits will be as mentioned in the schedule. 
14.45 STOP LOSS: It is hereby declared and agreed at the request of the Insured that “Stop Loss” 
Clause will be applicable in the policy. Stop Loss means if ICR reaches a pre-specified limit, 
the payment of claims will be stopped until additional Premium is paid for the coverage. The 
limits will be as mentioned in the schedule. 
14.46 ANY OTHER COVERAGE: It is hereby declared and agreed at the request of the Insured that 
Additional coverage as specified in the schedule will be payable under the policy. 
 
 
 
NIAHLGP21282V022021 
 
Page 25 of 28 
NEW INDIA FLEXI GROUP MEDICLAIM POLICY 
ANNEXURE I:  
List I – Items for which coverage is not available in the policy 
S No 
Item 
1 
BABY FOOD 
2 
BABY UTILITIES CHARGES 
3 
BEAUTY SERVICES 
4 
BELTS / BRACES 
5 
BUDS 
6 
COLD PACK / HOT PACK 
7 
CARRY BAGS 
8 
EMAIL / INTERNET CHARGES 
9 
FOOD CHARGES (OTHER THAN PATIENT's DIET PROVIDED BY HOSPITAL) 
10 
LEGGINGS 
11 
LAUNDRY CHARGES 
12 
MINERAL WATER 
13 
SANITARY PAD  
14 
TELEPHONE CHARGES 
15 
GUEST SERVICES 
16 
CREPE BANDAGE 
17 
DIAPER OF ANY TYPE 
18 
EYELET COLLAR 
19 
SLINGS 
20 
BLOOD GROUPING AND CROSS MATCHING OF DONORS SAMPLES 
21 
SERVICE CHARGES WHERE NURSING CHARGE ALSO CHARGED 
22 
TELEVISION CHARGES 
23 
SURCHARGES 
24 
ATTENDANT CHARGES 
25 
EXTRA DIET OF PATIENT (OTHER THAN THAT WHICH FORMS PART OF BED CHARGE) 
26 
BIRTH CERTIFICATE 
27 
CERTIFICATE CHARGES 
28 
COURIER CHARGES 
29 
CONVEYANCE CHARGES 
30 
MEDICAL CERTIFICATE 
31 
MEDICAL RECORDS 
32 
PHOTOCOPIES CHARGES 
33 
MORTUARY CHARGES  
34 
WALKING AIDS CHARGES 
35 
OXYGEN CYLINDER (FOR USAGE OUTSIDE THE HOSPITAL)  
36 
SPACER  
37 
SPIROMETRE  
38 
NEBULIZER KIT 
39 
STEAM INHALER 
40 
ARMSLING 
41 
THERMOMETER 
42 
CERVICAL COLLAR 
43 
SPLINT 
44 
DIABETIC FOOT WEAR 
45 
KNEE BRACES (LONG / SHORT / HINGED)  
46 
KNEE IMMOBILIZER / SHOULDER IMMOBILIZER 
47 
LUMBO SACRAL BELT 
48 
NIMBUS BED OR WATER OR AIR BED CHARGES 
49 
AMBULANCE COLLAR 
50 
AMBULANCE EQUIPMENT 
51 
ABDOMINAL BINDER 
 
 
 
NIAHLGP21282V022021 
 
Page 26 of 28 
NEW INDIA FLEXI GROUP MEDICLAIM POLICY 
 
List II – Items that are to be subsumed into Room Charges 
52 
PRIVATE NURSES CHARGES - SPECIAL NURSING CHARGES  
53 
SUGAR FREE TABLETS 
54 
CREAMS POWDERS LOTIONS (Toiletries are not payable, only prescribed medical pharmaceuticals 
payable) 
55 
ECG ELECTRODES 
56 
GLOVES 
57 
NEBULISATION KIT 
58 
ANY KIT WITH NO DETAILS MENTIONED (DELIVERY KIT, ORTHOKIT, RECOVERY KIT, ETC) 
59 
KIDNEY TRAY 
60 
MASK  
61 
OUNCE GLASS 
62 
OXYGEN MASK 
63 
PELVIC TRACTION BELT  
64 
PAN CAN 
65 
TROLLY COVER 
66 
UROMETER, URINE JUG 
67 
AMBULANCE 
68 
VASOFIX SAFETY 
S No 
Item 
1 
BABY CHARGES (UNLESS SPECIFIED / INDICATED) 
2 
HAND WASH 
3 
SHOE COVER 
4 
CAPS 
5 
CRADLE CHARGES 
6 
COMB 
7 
EAU-DE-COLOGNE / ROOM FRESHNERS 
8 
FOOT COVER 
9 
GOWN 
10 
SLIPPERS  
11 
TISSUE PAPER 
12 
TOOTH PASTE 
13 
TOOTH BRUSH 
14 
BED PAN 
15 
FACE MASK 
16 
FLEXI MASK 
17 
HAND HOLDER 
18 
SPUTUM CUP  
19 
DISINFECTANT LOTIONS 
20 
LUXURY TAX 
21 
HVAC 
22 
HOUSE KEEPING CHARGES 
23 
AIR CONDITIONER CHARGES 
24 
IM IV INJECTION CHARGES  
25 
CLEAN SHEET 
26 
BLANKET / WARMER BLANKET 
27 
ADMISSION KIT 
28 
DIABETIC CHART CHARGES 
29 
DOCUMENTATION CHARGES / ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES 
30 
DISCHARGE PROCEDURE CHARGES 
31 
DAILY CHART CHARGES 
32 
ENTRANCE PASS / VISITORS PASS CHARGES 
33 
EXPENSES RELATED TO PRESCRIPTION ON DISCHARGE 
 
 
 
NIAHLGP21282V022021 
 
Page 27 of 28 
NEW INDIA FLEXI GROUP MEDICLAIM POLICY 
 
List III – Items that are to be subsumed into Procedure Charges 
 
List IV – Items that are to be subsumed into costs of treatment 
 
 
34 
FILE OPENING CHARGES 
35 
INCIDENTAL EXPENSES / MISC. CHARGES (NOT EXPLAINED) 
36 
PATIENT IDENTIFICATION BAND / NAME TAG 
37 
PULSEOXYMETER CHARGES 
S No 
Item 
1 
HAIR REMOVAL CREAM 
2 
DISPOSABLES RAZORS CHARGES (for site preparations) 
3 
EYE PAD 
4 
EYE SHEILD 
5 
CAMERA COVER 
6 
DVD, CD CHARGES 
7 
GAUSE SOFT 
8 
GAUZE 
9 
WARD AND THEATRE BOOKING CHARGES 
10 
ARTHROSCOPY AND ENDOSCOPY INSTRUMENTS 
11 
MICROSCOPE COVER  
12 
SURGICAL BLADES, HARMONICSCALPEL, SHAVER 
13 
SURGICAL DRILL 
14 
EYE KIT  
15 
EYE DRAPE 
16 
X-RAY FILM 
17 
BOYLES APPARATUS CHARGES 
18 
COTTON 
19 
COTTON BANDAGE 
20 
SURGICAL TAPE 
21 
APRON 
22 
TORNIQUET  
23 
ORTHOBUNDLE, GYNAEC BUNDLE 
S No 
Item 
1 
ADMISSION / REGISTRATION CHARGES 
2 
HOSPITALISATION FOR EVALUATION / DIAGNOSTIC PURPOSE 
3 
URINE CONTAINER 
4 
BLOOD RESERVATION CHARGES AND ANTE NATAL BOOKING CHARGES 
5 
BIPAP MACHINE 
6 
CPAP / CAPD EQUIPMENTS 
7 
INFUSION PUMP - COST 
8 
HYDROGEN PEROXIDE / SPIRIT / DISINFECTANTS ETC 
9 
NUTRITION PLANNING CHARGES - DIETICIAN CHARGES- DIET CHARGES  
10 
HIV KIT 
11 
ANTISEPTIC MOUTHWASH 
12 
LOZENGES 
13 
MOUTH PAINT 
14 
VACCINATION CHARGES 
15 
ALCOHOL SWABES 
16 
SCRUB SOLUTION / STERILLIUM 
17 
GLUCOMETER & STRIPS 
18 
URINE BAG 
 
 
 
NIAHLGP21282V022021 
 
Page 28 of 28 
NEW INDIA FLEXI GROUP MEDICLAIM POLICY 
ANNEXURE II: CONTACT DETAILS OF INSURANCE OMBUDSMEN 
AHMEDABAD - Shri Kuldip Singh  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
Jeevan Prakash Building, 6th floor,  
Tilak Marg, Relief Road, Ahmedabad – 380 001.  
Tel.: 079 - 25501201/02/05/06  
Email: bimalokpal.ahmedabad@ecoi.co.in  
BHOPAL - Shri Guru Saran Shrivastava  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
Janak Vihar Complex, 2nd Floor, 6, Malviya Nagar, 
Opp. Airtel Office, Near New Market, Bhopal – 462 
003.  
Tel.: 0755 - 2769201 / 2769202  
Fax: 0755 - 2769203  
Email: bimalokpal.bhopal@ecoi.co.in  
BHUBANESHWAR - Shri Suresh Chandra Panda  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
62, Forest park, Bhubneshwar – 751 009.  
Tel.: 0674 - 2596461 /2596455  
Fax: 0674 - 2596429  
Email: bimalokpal.bhubaneswar@ecoi.co.in  
CHANDIGARH - Dr. Dinesh Kumar Verma  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
S.C.O. No. 101, 102 & 103, 2nd Floor,  
Batra Building, Sector 17 – D, Chandigarh – 160 017.  
Tel.: 0172 - 2706196 / 2706468  
Fax: 0172 - 2708274  
Email: bimalokpal.chandigarh@ecoi.co.in  
CHENNAI - Shri M. Vasantha Krishna  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
Fatima Akhtar Court, 4th Floor, 453,  
Anna Salai, Teynampet, CHENNAI – 600 018.  
Tel.: 044 - 24333668 / 24335284  
Fax: 044 - 24333664  
Email: bimalokpal.chennai@ecoi.co.in  
DELHI - Shri Sudhir Krishna  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 2/2 A, Universal 
Insurance Building,  
Asaf Ali Road, New Delhi – 110 002.  
Tel.: 011 - 23232481/23213504  
Email: bimalokpal.delhi@ecoi.co.in  
GUWAHATI - Shri Kiriti .B. Saha  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
Jeevan Nivesh, 5th Floor,  
Nr. Panbazar over bridge, S.S. Road, Guwahati – 
781001(ASSAM).  
Tel.: 0361 - 2632204 / 2602205  
Email: bimalokpal.guwahati@ecoi.co.in  
HYDERABAD - Shri I. Suresh Babu  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
6-2-46, 1st floor, "Moin Court",  
Lane Opp. Saleem Function Palace, A. C. Guards, Lakdi-Ka-Pool, 
Hyderabad - 500 004.  
Tel.: 040 - 67504123 / 23312122  
Fax: 040 - 23376599  
Email: bimalokpal.hyderabad@ecoi.co.in  
ERNAKULAM - Ms. Poonam Bodra  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
2nd Floor, Pulinat Bldg., Opp. Cochin Shipyard, M. G. Road, 
Ernakulam - 682 015.  
Tel.: 0484 - 2358759 / 2359338  
Fax: 0484 - 2359336  
Email: bimalokpal.ernakulam@ecoi.co.in  
KOLKATA - Shri P. K. Rath  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, Hindustan Bldg. 
Annexe, 4th Floor, 4, C.R. Avenue, KOLKATA - 700 
072.  
Tel.: 033 - 22124339 / 22124340  
Fax : 033 - 22124341  
Email: bimalokpal.kolkata@ecoi.co.in  
LUCKNOW -Shri Justice Anil Kumar Srivastava  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
6th Floor, Jeevan Bhawan, Phase-II,  
Nawal Kishore Road, Hazratganj, Lucknow - 226 001.  
Tel.: 0522 - 2231330 / 2231331  
Fax: 0522 - 2231310  
Email: bimalokpal.lucknow@ecoi.co.in  
MUMBAI - Shri Milind A. Kharat  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
3rd Floor, Jeevan Seva Annexe,  
S. V. Road, Santacruz (W), Mumbai - 400 054.  
Tel.: 022 - 26106552 / 26106960  
Fax: 022 - 26106052  
Email: bimalokpal.mumbai@ecoi.co.in  
JAIPUR - Smt. Sandhya Baliga  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
Jeevan Nidhi – II Bldg., Gr. Floor, Bhawani Singh Marg, 
Jaipur - 302 005.  
Tel.: 0141 - 2740363  
Email: bimalokpal.jaipur@ecoi.co.in  
PUNE - Shri Vinay Sah  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
Jeevan Darshan Bldg., 3rd Floor,  
C.T.S. No.s. 195 to 198, N.C. Kelkar Road, Narayan Peth, Pune – 
411 030.  
Tel.: 020-41312555  
Email: bimalokpal.pune@ecoi.co.in  
BENGALURU - Smt. Neerja Shah  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
Jeevan Soudha Building,PID No. 57-27-N-19 Ground Floor, 19/19, 
24th Main Road,  
JP Nagar, Ist Phase, Bengaluru – 560 078.  
Tel.: 080 - 26652048 / 26652049  
Email: bimalokpal.bengaluru@ecoi.co.in  
NOIDA - Shri Chandra Shekhar Prasad  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
Bhagwan Sahai Palace, 4th Floor, Main Road, Naya Bans, Sector 
15, Distt: Gautam Buddh Nagar, U.P-201301.  
Tel.: 0120-2514250 / 2514252 / 2514253  
Email: bimalokpal.noida@ecoi.co.in  
PATNA - Shri N. K. Singh  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
1st Floor,Kalpana Arcade Building,,  
Bazar Samiti Road, Bahadurpur, Patna 800 006.  
Tel.: 0612-2680952  
Email: bimalokpal.patna@ecoi.co.in  
  
 
 
